## Pre-commit
Used to setup git hook scripts which are useful for identifying small issues before submission of code. It is basically a package mangager for pre-commit hooks, where you just need to specify a list of hook in a configuration file and the tool takes care of installation and execution of the specified hooks.
 <br>
Find the official documentation here: https://pre-commit.com/ 

### Prerequisites
- Version Control
- git CLI

### Installation
```pip install pre-commit```

### Add a pre-commit configuration
Create file .pre-commit-config
Use the following command to see a sample configuration file
```pre-commit sample-config``` <br>
[See this repository configuration file](../.pre-commit-config.yaml)

### Install the git hook script.
The following command will make pre-commit autmatically run before every git commit <br>
```pre-commit install```

### Manually trigger pre-commit checks on all files.
```pre-commit run --all-files```


### Finding hooks
##### Official hooks from pre-commit:
https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit-hooks
##### Otherwise, look for other open-source hooks, e.g.:
https://github.com/pycqa


### Benefits of using pre-commit (and linting)
- Faster feedback: Pre-commit hooks provide instant feedback, allows developers to address issues quickly.
- Reduced review time: By catching trivial style nitpicks and erros before code is pushed.
- Reduced build time: Catch eerros before pushed to build.
- Improved code quality: Linting/pre-commit helps to enforce coding standards and catch potential errors and mistakes, which leads to better code quality.
- Consistent coding style: Liting/Pre-commit ensure that all code committed to the repository adheres to a consistent coding style, improving readability and maintainability.

### Drawbacks
- Developers can circumvent pre-commit hooks. (E.g. by using `git commit --no-verify`).
- Pre-commit hooks can sometimes generate false positives, blocking commits that are actually valid. This can be frustrating and reduce productivity.
- Maintenance overhead: Pre-commit hooks needs to be updated and possibly reconfigured to keep up with codebase.
