## Github Actions
Can be used for:
- *Automating the build and testing of code (Continuous Integration (CI))*
- Deploying code and automating the release process. (Continuous Delivery (CD))
- *Code analysis and linting*
- Integration with other tools such as Jira, slack and many others.
- ...

## Setup
#### Create a `.github/workflows` directory in your repository
In your terminal you can run the following command in your root project folder
```mkdir -p .github/workflows```

#### In the `.github/workflows` directory, create a configuration file `<my-work-flow-name>.yml`

[See the build workflow for this repository](../.github/workflows/build-pr.yaml)
[See the trigger-by-comment workflow for this repository](../.github/workflows/trigger-by-comment.yaml)

#### Start configurating your Github Action
Start writing workflow jbos in the configuration file.
See the docs `https://docs.github.com/en/actions/quickstart` for inspiration

### Additional resources
- GitHub Actions Settings - https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository

#### Benefits of using automated builds:

- Early Detection of Issues: Automated builds catch problems early in the development process, reducing the time and cost of fixing them later.
- Faster Feedback: Automated builds provide immediate feedback to developers, allowing them to quickly fix problems and move on to the next task.
- Improved Code Quality: Automated builds ensure that code changes do not break the existing codebase, resulting in a higher-quality codebase over time.
- Increased Productivity: Automated builds free up time and resources that would otherwise be spent on manual builds, allowing developers to focus on more important tasks.
- Reduced Risk: Automated builds reduce the risk of human error and provide a safety net for code changes, making the development process more predictable and reliable.
- Increased Confidence: Automated builds increase confidence in the codebase and make it easier to maintain and upgrade over time.


#### Drawbacks of using automated builds

- Complexity: Automated builds can be complex to set up and maintain, especially for large and complex projects.
- False positive and false negatives: Can result in wasted time or code being deployed even though it is not working properly.
- Resource Intensity: Automated builds can be resource-intensive, requiring significant computing power, storage, and network bandwidth.
- Maintenance Overhead: Automated builds needs to be updated and possibly reconfigured to keep up with a changing codebase.
